Encrypting File System refers to the ability to encrypt individual files.
So I have a folder here called my files,
and I have a Work Journal file that is a secret
document where only I should read it.
Now we can use NTFS security, that's true,
and we'll learn more about that in the next module,
but if you really want to be serious about your file level security,
we can right-click and go to Properties,
and then on the Advanced properties on the General page,
we can choose Encrypt contents to secure data.
Click OK, OK,
and it says you're encrypting a file that's in an unencrypted folder.
If this file is modified,
the editing software might store a temporary unencrypted copy.
So let's actually encrypt the entire folder.
You see now that the folder has a lock on it,
and the document itself, it used to be they would turn green.
I'm colorblind, so I have no idea what color that is.
Let me go to View Extra large icons.
I guess now, it looks like it displays with a lock on it.
That's fine.
What I'm actually going to do here is go to my D drive,
that's an NTFS volume, and I'm going to move this to a new destination.
The question now is going to be,
is that file still protected if I log on as another user?
So let me choose the User menu.
Let me sign out, and I'm going to login in as Liz, another user in my company.
pri domain.
Let's complete her process here.
All right, we're logged in, so now let's open up File Explorer,
go to drive D, there's the myfiles folder.
And when I double left-click Work Journal,
it says you do not have permission to open this file.
See the owner of the file or an administrator to obtain permission.
And if we adjust the view to extra large icons,
we can see that that file is encrypted.
If we go to Properties and go to Details,
we can see that the owner is the Tim account,
DEVBOX\Tim.
So now we'll sign out as Liz Noto; I'll sign back in as myself,
and this time, I'll open up Run and just do the path directly to d:\my files,
and I have access to that file.
Now that EFS is transparent-file level encryption.
It can be a little scary in terms of how easy it is to do that,
but what's going on under the hood is that my Tim user has
a certificate that allows that to work.
Let's again go back to Run, and I'm going to open up certmgr.
msc.
If you're thinking, Tim, what's with all these msc's in file names?
Should you know them?
You want to know what?
Yes,
you should because it's going to save you a heck of a lot of time when
you're doing this kind of work for your customers.
It's always faster to do something command line than click
through a whole bunch of different windows,
really.
So I'm looking at the certificate,
the digital certificate store of my currently logged-on user,
and in the Personal store, we have a container called Certificates.
And if you look at Intended Purpose,
we have an Encrypting File System certificate here.
If this gets deleted,
I'm not going to be able to work with my encrypted files anymore forever,
and unless I'm in a domain environment where there's
at least one data recovery agent, I'm hosed.
So you want to make a backup of your files, big time.
How do you do that?
Well, you right-click the file, go to All Tasks, Export.
And we step through the wizard.
We want to export the entire certificate, public and private key parts.
I'll leave the default format.
Definitely encrypt it with a password, with a strong password.
It's just like the BitLocker encryption key.
This is super-sensitive information here.
And then where are you going to store it?
I'll go to my drive D.
I'll put it on the root there,
but obviously I want to take it off the computer
and keep it in a secure location.
So that's backing up the encrypting file system key.
Let's finish this discussion with our BitLocker.
Let's go open up the BitLocker Control Panel again,
and it's asking for a restart.
Yep, so let's restart the computer using PowerShell, restart-computer -force.
And let's encrypt this drive.
Now if you're using a startup password to unlock the drive,
this is the screen that you see.
If you're using just TPM,
then as long as you're logging onto the computer that can access the TPM,
the system will start normally.
But this is certainly another layer of protection that you can add.
Notice it says Press Enter to continue or Press Esc for BitLocker recovery.
If you press Esc, we go into the Windows recovery environment,
and in that recovery environment, you'll need to type,
hand type the recovery key that you will have backed up,
potentially printed off, stored in a safe or in your MBAM environment,
if you're using BitLocker Administration. You can retrieve it that way.